.\" Copyright 2020 Scott Court
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
.\" of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), todeal
.\" in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the
.\" rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or
.\" sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS
.\" IN THE SOFTWARE.
.TH MAKEPKG 8 2020-03-24 "Fidelix" "Linux System Administrator's Manual"
.SH NAME
makepkg \- creates an installable package

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B makepkg [-h] [-d ROOT_DIR] [-m METADATA_DIR] -o <OUTPUT_FILE>

.SH DESCRIPTION
Make an installable package from the contents of a directory. The resulting
package can be installed with
.BR installpkg(8)

.PP
Options:
.TP
\fB-o <output file>\fR
The name of the file to write the package archive to. By convention, this is of the form
.B name-version-architecture-osrelease-build.tgz
Valid file extensions are .tgz and .tbz.
.TP
\fB-d <root directory>\fR
The root directory to make the package from. If this is omitted, defaults to
the current working directory.
.TP
\fB-m <metadata directory>\fR
The directory containing the package metadata. If this is omitted, defaults to
ROOT_DIR/var/pkgdb/output_file_basename.
.TP
\fB-h\fR
Displays a help message.

.SH METADATA
The following files are permitted in the metadata directory. If using 
.B -m 
to specify a different metadata directory, only these files will be copied and
all other files will be ignored.
.TP
\fBdescription\fR
Contains a description of the package (optionally multiline).
.TP
\fBREADME.install\fR
A README to display when installing the package.
.TP
\fBREADME.upgrade\fR
A README to display when upgrading the package.
.TP
\fBREADME.uninstall\fR
A README to display when uninstalling the package.
.TP
\fBdoinst.sh\fR
A shell script to run after installing the package.
.TP
\fBdouninst.sh\fR
A shell script to run before uninstalling the package.

.SH AUTHOR
Makepkg was written by Scott Court (z5t1@z5t1.com).

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pkgtool(8)
.BR installpkg(8)
.BR removepkg(8)
.BR upgradepkg(8)
