.\" Copyright 2020 Scott Court
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
.\" of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), todeal
.\" in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the
.\" rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or
.\" sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS
.\" IN THE SOFTWARE.
.TH PKGTOOL 8 2020-03-24 "Linux" "Linux System Administrator's Manual"
.SH NAME
pkgtool \- useful subcommands for package creation and management

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pkgtool <SUBCOMMAND> [OPTIONS]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Provides several useful subcommand utilities for package creation and
management. Each subcommand is fully documented further down.

.PP
Subcommands:
.TP
\fBhelp\fR
Displays a help message.
.TP
\fBversion\fR
Displays the version of pkgtools.
.TP
\fBpreserve-file\fR
Preserves a configuration file when making a packags so it is not overwritten
on package upgrades.
.TP
\fBinstall-new-file\fR
Installs a new file without blindly overwriting any prexisting old files. This
is most useful for prserving config files.

.SH SUBCOMMANDS

.SS preserve-file
\fBUsage:\fR
pkgtool preserve-file <FILENAME>

FILENAME should be the name of the original file (without a .new suffix).

Preserves a configuration file when making a packags so it is not overwritten
on package upgrades. It does this by adding a .new suffix to the file. These
files can then be installed using the
\fBinstall-new-file\fR
subcommand, taking into account any prexisting files.

.SS install-new-file
.PP
\fBUsage:\fR
pkgtool install-new-file <FILENAME>

FILENAME should be the name of the original file (without a .new suffix).

Installs a new configuration file that was previously marked for preservation
with
\fBpreserve-file\fR.
It does this by first checking if there is a prexisting file. If there is not,
it installs the .new file. If there is, it checks if the files differ. If they
do not, the .new file is deleted. If they do, it proceeds differently depending
on the value of the NEW_FILE_ACTION environment variable:

.TP
\fBKEEP\fR
Keep the existing file in place and leave the .new file for consideration
later. This is the default if NEW_FILE_ACTION is not set.

.TP
\fBREPLACE\fR
Replaces the existing file with the new one, saving the original file with
a .old suffix.

.TP
\fBOVERWRITE\fR
Blindly overwrites the existing file without saving a copy of it.

.SH AUTHOR
pkgtool was written by Scott Court (z5t1@z5t1.com).

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR makepkg(8)
.BR installpkg(8)
.BR removepkg(8)
.BR upgradepkg(8)
