.\" Copyright 2020 Scott Court
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
.\" of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), todeal
.\" in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the
.\" rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or
.\" sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS
.\" IN THE SOFTWARE.
.TH UPGRADEPKG 8 2020-03-24 "Fidelix" "Linux System Administrator's Manual"
.SH NAME
upgradepkg \- upgrade a package

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B upgradepkg [-hir] [-d ROOT_DIR] <PACKAGE_FILE>

.SH DESCRIPTION
Upgrades the package PACKAGE_FILE. It does this by first installing the new version of the package and then removing all old versions of the package.

.PP
Options:
.TP
\fB-d <root directory>\fR
Causes the package to be upgraded in the specified root directory instead of
the default of /.
.TP                                                                         
\fB-r\fR                                                                       
If the package is already installed, reinstall it.                              
.TP
\fB-h\fR
Displays a help message.
.TP
\fB-i\fR
If the package is not already installed, install it.

.SH AUTHOR
Upgradepkg was written by Scott Court (z5t1@z5t1.com).

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR installpkg(8)
.BR removepkg(8)
.BR makepkg(8)
